- [Instructor] Spring Boot's data support is rich and robust
and it's based on the highly successful
Spring Data platform.
So let's talk about Spring Boot and data specifically.
Built-in is rich support for traditional RDBMS systems
as well as more modern NoSQL systems.
And again, it's built right into the platform.
It's based almost entirely
on the Spring Data project.
As such, there's a lot of material on Spring Data out there
and you're not going to get too deep into it in this course.
So if you want to dig deeper
I highly encourage you to check out
Mary Ellen Bowman's course here on LinkedIn Learning
called Spring Spring Data.
Now as with most of Spring Boot,
Spring Data starters leverage a lot of common defaults
that as developers who've used spring data for a long time,
we kind of get this copy and paste mode going
and that's not always the same.
But with Spring Data
you're going to get those opinions built in.
And that's what Spring Boot is leveraging.
Now part of configuring a database
in a Spring Data project
is getting the database drivers correct.
And when I say drivers, not just the driver classes
but also the URL, username, password,
and everything that goes into building that data source.
When you include a DB technology into your class path,
you will get a set of properties built
that you can then use to populate
so that Spring will either auto-configure
or take your property overrides
to build those database drivers for you.
Those properties can be used to supply things
like credentials, URLs,
and various other activities that traditionally
you would need to use to connect to the database
in order to retrieve data from it or write data to it.
Now, some databases such as H2, or SQL DB
will auto-configure an embedded database.
And this is great for POC work, or demo work,
or in this course
because that's exactly what we're going to do.
You also have the ability to leverage common scripts
with these embedded databases
to prime that embedded database,
so that when you get data from the beginning,
instead of having to figure out some way
to put the data into our database.
Now this really becomes powerful in a test scenario.
Remember how you can use different profiles
while in the same way you can write different configs
for testing and you can use an embedded database
for testing and then a real database for production.
That way you can put all the data you need
in order to adequately test your application.
Now, I mentioned that the data sources
get created with the project itself,
and then auto-configured.
When properly configured, you will get a data source bin
that you can inject wherever you need it
not just into your repositories by default.
The one caveat to this
is that you can only have one database auto-configured.
Any other database connections that you will need to make,
you will have to manually configure.
However, in modern microservices development,
it's very rare to have multiple databases
on a single application.
And again, that data source can be injected
as needed anywhere within your application.
But Spring Boot will configure your repositories
if you're using JPA for instance
and inject that data source into them,
so you don't ever have to actually mess
with the data source bin.
And that again is the power of Spring Boot
and it's an opinionated auto-configuration methods.